# Configurations, rules, and scripts to confirm several Lemmas

## Requirements
+ Python 3.8+

## Data
+ In directory named ```reducible```, (normal) reducible configuration files of our unavoidable set denoted as $\mathcal{K}$ in our papaer are placed.
  * This directory consists of ```conf```, ```dconf```, ```log```, ```contraction_log```, ```img``` subdirectories. ```conf``` directory contains configuration files. ```dconf``` directory contains island (dual of a configuration) files, ```log``` direrctory contains log files of reducible checker, ```contraction_log``` directory contains log files of multiple contractions (they are used in the analysis described in Section 8),  ```img``` directory contains the drawings of configurations.
  * The files with the same filename excpet for the extension correspond (e.g. ```conf/torus00001.conf```,```dconf/torus00001.dconf```, ```log/torus00001.log```, ```img/torus00001.png```).
  * The basenames ```C01``` ... ```C26``` represent  $C(i) (1 \leq i \leq 26)$ in our paper.
  * The file that collects results of reducible checker named ```summary.csv``` is also placed. This file is generated by ```summary.py```.
  * The file that collects results of multiple contractions named ```contraction_summary.csv``` is also placed. This file is generated by ```summary.py```.
+ In directory named ```noneed_discharge_program``` (normal) reducible configuration files that are not needed for execution of dishcarging program are placed.
  * The structure inside ```noneed_discharge_program``` is similar to ```reducible```. Indeed, the difference is that ```contraction_log``` does not exist.
  * The basenames ```C27``` ... ```C29``` represent  $C(i) (27 \leq i \leq 29)$ in our paper.
  * The basenames ```D01```...```D10``` represent $D(i) (1 \leq i \leq 10)$ used in Lemma 6.1.
+ In directory named ```nconfs```, annular configuraion files are placed. 
  * This directory consists of ```nconf```, ```log``` subdirectories. ```nconf``` directory contains annular island files. ```log``` directory contains log files of reducilbe checker.
  * The files with the same filename excpet for the extension correspond.
  * The basenames ```D11```...```D19``` represent $D(i) (11 \leq i \leq 19)$ used in Lemma 6.1.
  * The basenames ```A1```...```A5``` represent $A(i) (1 \leq i \leq 5)$ used in Lemma 5.7.
  * Other annular islands are used in Section 8.1.1, 8.1.2. ```recheck*.nconf``` are generated by hand, but other annular islands are generated by the program (```loop.sh, loop.py```). This is explained later in this README.md.
  * The file that collects results of reducible checker named ```summary.csv``` is also placed. This file is generated by ```summary.py```.
+ In ```rule``` directory, All rule files used for the discharging are placed.

## Distance 5 in configurations (Lemma 3.22)
The program ```dist5.py``` is used to prove Lemma 3.22.
We check all pairs of vertices of distance 5 in the configuration in $\mathcal{K}$. 
```bash
python3 dist5.py reducible/conf 
```

## Generate annular islands to avoid bridges (Section 8.1.1, 8.1.2)
The program ```loop.py``` is used to generate annular islands to avoid loops (which corresponds to bridges in dual). By running the commad below, we generate annular islands and the results are placed in ```nconfs/nconf``` (The date obtained are already placed.).
```bash
bash loop.sh reducible/summary.csv reducible/conf nconfs/nconf
```

